---
author: "Naruki Ichihara, Masahito Ueda"
draft: false
title: "Fail-safe metamaterials with 3D printed fiber reinforced polymers"
date: "2022-08-31"
description: "Proceedings of TEXCOMP-14 Conference"
tags: ["3D print", "metamaterials"]
categories: ["International Conference"]
ShowToc: false
ShowBreadCrumbs: false
---
Fail-safe is a design philosophy that ensures the structure's safety under unexpected loading. Fail-safe structures often consist of many struts or parts because these structures prevent catastrophic failure with their structural redundancy. However, the fail-safe structures suffer the increasing number of components and enlarged structure size. Therefore, the knowledge to design mechanical structures that enclose a small number of components and are fail-safe stays challenging.

Recent advanced additive manufacturing technologies provide complex and delicate structures that blur the boundary between "structure" and "material." These complex structures exhibit distinctive properties and are often termed "metamaterials." For example, the various scale of lattice structures is used as mechanical metamaterials with their unique properties, such as high toughness and energy absorption. Hence, the monolithic structure integrated with these metamaterials exhibits high toughness and will provide an emerging class of matter with a built-in fail-safe. Although metamaterials maintain a complex topology, stereolithography apparatus (SLA) fabricated these geometries with single substances like plastics or metals. However, SLA has a limitation in selecting the materials, mainly cannot operate composite materials such as continuous/short fiber-reinforced composites. Opposite to SLA, Fused filament fabrication (FFF) is attractive because it uses various materials, including polymer, ceramics, metals, and composites. However, due to their complex geometry, generating the print paths that maintain the mechanical properties is challenging.

This study proposed emerging fail-safe metamaterials using the optimal and curvilinear print path of the FFF. The conformed woodpile lattice was integrated into the monolithic structure obtained by the multi-scale anisotropic topology optimization. First, the relation between material fraction and effective stiffness was investigated using the numerical material test. Then, based on the periodic pattern formation system, the 3D print path generation method realized the continuous 3D print path that provides a fail-safe metamaterial. Finally, the material test was performed to validate the high toughness of the proposed metamaterials.

* * *
[web page](https://tmsj.or.jp/texcomp14/)


